# Comment Bars

- [Comment Bars](#comment-bars)
  - [Features](#features)
    - [Seamless Filling](#seamless-filling)
      - [Activating Seamless Filling](#activating-seamless-filling)
  - [Terminology](#terminology)
  - [Commands and Instructions](#commands-and-instructions)
  - [Settings](#settings)
  - [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration)
    - [Comment Delimeter Settings](#comment-delimeter-settings)
      - [Default Comment Delimeters](#default-comment-delimeters)
  - [Known Issues](#known-issues)
  - [Release Notes](#release-notes)

## Features

**Comment Bars**, in the context of this extension, are comments in your
code that help to separate your work into logical sections. Here are some
Comment Bars using C-style comments:

Plain separator, no text:

```c
/* ====================================================== */
/* ====================================================== */
/* ====================================================== */
```

Same as above, with added text:

```c
/* ====================================================== */
/* ================== Comment Bars Rock ================= */
/* ====================================================== */
```

Want to customize width, dash (fill) character or thickness? No problem!

```c
/* -------- Thinner ------- */
```

The Comment Bars extension automatically generates these separators.

### Seamless Filling

When seamless filling is enabled, the Comment Bars extension will attempt to
remove spaces between the comment delimeters and the fill characters. This ONLY
happens if the bordering character of the delimeters is the same character as
the fill character. Take a look at some examples.

The following examples were generated by the plugin, with a Python
source code file active. Python uses the `#` symbol to start single
line comments. As a result, these examples are applicaple to any
syntax with a similar comment format. Lets get to it!

Python comment bar without seamless filling:

```python
# ######################################################## #
# ##################### Not Seamless ##################### #
# ######################################################## #
```

Notice the spaces after the starting `#` symbol and before the
ending `#` symbol, on each line.

Lets try that again, this time with seamless filling:

```python
############################################################
######################### Seamless #########################
############################################################
```

Now those spaces are gone! Magic!

Lets change the fill character from the last example (still with seamless
filling turned on):

```python
# ======================================================== #
# ======================= Seamless? ====================== #
# ======================================================== #
```

Notice that the spaces between the comment delimeters
and the fill characters come back now. This is the intended operation
of seamless filling.

#### Activating Seamless Filling

At the moment, seamless filling is only available by using quick presets.

## Terminology

In order to use this extension there are a few terms that you should
be aware of.

- *fill character* &mdash; A single character of text that
   is repeated across the entire width of the comment bar.

- *comment delimter* &mdash; The string of code that a programming
   language looks for to indicate the beginning or end of a comment.

## Commands and Instructions

- `commentbars.generateAdvanced` &mdash; labeled "Comment Bars:
   Generate (Advanced)"  in Command Palette. Generate a comment
   bar using *Advanced* mode.
  
  **Command Instructions:**
   1. If you wish for your comment bar to contain text, type the text
      on an empty line and select it. Otherwise move the cursor to
      the empty line where you wish to insert the comment bar.
   2. Open the Command Palette: `Ctrl+Shift+P` on Windows and Linux,
      `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac
   3. Find and run the command called *Comment Bars: Generate (Advanced)*
   4. Enter the the requested information in the boxes that pop up at
      the top of the editor.

- `commentbars.generateQuick` &mdash; labeled "Comment Bars:
   Generate (Quick)" in Command Palette. Generate a comment bar
   using a preset style (*Quick* mode).

   **Command Instructions:**
   1. If you wish for your comment bar to contain text, type the text
      on an empty line and select it. Otherwise move the cursor to
      the empty line where you wish to insert the comment bar.
   2. Open the Command Palette: `Ctrl+Shift+P` on Windows and Linux,
      `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac
   3. Find and run the command called *Comment Bars: Generate (Quick)*
   4. Select the appropriate comment bar preset style from the list.
      > **Tip**\
      > The presets can be customized with the
      > `commentbars.quickPresets` setting.

## Settings

This extension is highly configurable. The following lists the
available settings for customizing the plugin:

- `commentbars.defaultFillChar`
  (see [Terminology](#terminology))
  &mdash; The default *fill character*. At the moment this is currently
  only used by the *Advanced* mode since `quickPresets` requires a fill
  character to be specified. Must be a string with a length of 1.

- `commentbars.quickPresets` &mdash; The available preset styles for *Quick* mode.
   Must be an array of objects. Each object accepts the following keys:
  - `label` &mdash; The name of the preset to display in the selection menu

  - `fillChar` &mdash; The fill character to use when this preset style
    is selected

  - `width` &mdash; The width of comment bars created using this preset style

  - `thickness` &mdash; The number of lines tall the comment bar will be, when
    using this preset style. This value will be rounded up to the nearest odd
    number in order to keep the text centered vertically.

  - `seamlessFill` (see [Seamless Filling](#seamless-filling)) &mdash;
    *Optional*, Enable seamless filling? Must be a `bool` (Default: `false`)

- `commentbars.commentDelimsUser`
  (see [Comment Delimters](#comment-delimeters))
  &mdash; The set of comment delimeters that is meant to be
  overridden by the user, or in workspace settings. The default value is empty.

- `commentbars.commentDelimsFallback`
  (see [Comment Delimeters](#comment-delimeters))
  &mdash; The global set of comment delimeters. The default value contains
  delimeters for  most languages VSCode has built-in support for.

## Advanced Configuration

### Comment Delimeter Settings

There are currently two settings that can be customized to alter the
comment delimters used by this extension:
  
- `commentbars.commentDelimsUser`
- `commentbars.commentDelimsFallback`

To make things easier they will be referred to as
simply `commentDelimsUser` and `commentDelimsFallback`, for
the rest of this section.

Both of these settings share the same format, which is described
below.

Delimeter configurations must be an object in the
following format (Documentation formatting loosely based on
[MSON][MSON-Link]):

- `object`\[`languageId` (`string`)] &mdash; `languageId`
  is the key of the object. Each key should be a Visual Studio
  Code language identifier. See [Language Id][Language-ID-Link]
  in VSCode documentation for more.

  - (object) &mdash; Value corresponding to each `languageId` key above

    **Properties:**

    - `start` (`string`, required) &mdash; The start comment delimeter for the
      language with the id `languageId`. As an example, if you are trying to
      configure Comment Bars for  a programming language that uses single line
      comments, starting with the *#* character. You could simply this option
      to the string, `"#"`.

    - `end` (`string`, nullable) &mdash; The ending comment delimeter for the
      language with the id `languageId`. For instance, C-Style comments (
      i.e. comments that look like `/* */`) require this to be set, for
      the `*/` portion. The default value of `commentbars.commentDelimsFallback`
      uses this option for many languages that don't need it, in order to make
      the comment bars symmetrical. If you do not like this you can override
      these languages in `commentbars.commentDelimsUser`.

#### Default Comment Delimeters

The default comment delimeters for most languages in Comment
bars use single line comments. In these cases, the start delimeter
is repeated as the end delimeter for symmetry.

## Known Issues

*If you spot any bugs, __please__ open a new issue at this extension's
GitHub repository!*

The following is a list of all major issues with the *Comment Bars*
extension:

- There are no known issues at this time

## Release Notes

See the changelog in this extension's GitHub repository.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Happy Coding!**

[MSON-Link]: https://github.com/apiaryio/mson
[Language-ID-Link]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/overview#_language-id